# sunrise choir - 17/09/2018

## attendees

- mikey
- piet
- aljoscha

## agenda

- [x] checkins
- ???
- what's our team rhythms?
- what processes do we want to have?
    - in previous teams
        - what did you like?
        - what did you not like?
    - how often do we want to meet?
    - what do we want to do when we meet?
- where do our things live?
- how do we want to communicate?
- recap roles and expectations
    - how do we want to be held accountable for our work?
    - what do we want to do?
    - what don't we want to do?
- sketch out first phase of work
    - what's the surrounding work that isn't dev?
- rust best practices?
    - do we have guidelines?
- ???

## previous team experiences

- piet
    - enjoyed having social elements
        - catching up in the morning, see how people are going
    - hard to deliver in a mechanical way
        - don't work well as a machine
    - tend to like a thing, work on it, then put it down and focus on something else
    - like kanban-ish board to get overview of tasks, have discussions, sort by priority, even if not organized into sprints
- aljoscha
    - first time working as a programmer
    - prefer a batch mode, get into a problem, obsess over it, figure it out, until completely done
- mikey
    - first time being a project manager
    - freedom to go deep, or pull away
    - burn out comes from not being able to pull away

## rhythms

- "daily" dev diary
- weekly meeting
- monthly retrospective

## processes

- kanban-ish board
- use GitHub for our own things
    - have ssbrs + sunrise-choir

## accountability

- piet
    - accountability
        - at start of month, say how much gonna work
        - at end of month retro, how many hours did you work, did you do your dev diary?
    - roles
        - hesitant to write specs, but think we really need to write specs, want to get better
        - keen for rusty programming
- aljoscha
    - roles
        - not hesitant to write specs
        - like programming in rust
        - getting a coherent picture of the whole stack out of people's minds and into a document
        - thinking about how to write a really accessible implementation, what needs to be there, what doesn't need to be there
            - do we want to be a reference implementation?
            - accessibility vs performance
                - idiomatic rust doesn't care about running out of memory
                - lean towards accessibility, can always do performance later
    - accountability
        - not sure yet, we can bookmark at first retro
- mikey
    - roles
        - meta-team things
        - don't want to do project stuff
        - do want to do more governance stuff for rs and this
        - do want to be available for peering / helping etc.


## stack

- piet
    - flume
- aljoscha
    - core protocol design

what is mvp?

