# sunrise choir - 11-12-2018

## Attendees

- pie
- mik
- alj

## Agenda

- [x] checkins
- [x] build the agenda
  - [ ] flume update
    - did a call with Matt and Mix and Mikey and Piet
    - sweet performance
  - [x] dominic + alj tension. (HSDT)
    - [x] understand what the source of the conflict is.
    - [ ] what to do about it. -> later
- [ ] rusty client for peachcloud stuff

## Dominic tension

  - alj is surprised. Alj has been planning to implement. Dominic wants in-place reading optimised for db. Alj has been designing for transmission + signing.
  - Dominic wants collections in bytes.
  - pie: has the discussion felt heated?
    - alj: no, there was one thing where Dominic wanted proof of perfomance gains, alj wrote back jokingly that he wanted Dominic to prove his performance gains. By the end of that thread. D wanted to discuss db format. Alj suggested cap & proto. Dominic said no it's not free form. That felt like he didn't properly engaged. 
    - pie: seems like big chunky technical discussions in the thread, they cover a lot of ground, is that true?
    - alj: in some senses yes, in another sense it's mostly details
    - pie: yes but a lot of details? a lot of things to disagree about?
    - alj: yeah

- Mik: D's context, he thinks that he's made it clear that to convince him is to describe use cases of real world applications.
- He's frustrated if it's based on hypothetical. No applications are asking for. Don't want to argue because it's hard to get people working on the backend
- D had a question about inplace formats, felt like alj isn't accomodating me and it's frustrating.
- alj: I've put multiple hours into this thread.
- mik: He wants to hear real world use-cases
- alj: is this for features? Or is it for just for collections? 
- mik: it's best to have more communication to iron out the things that weren't said. I'm sorry to load this on you. I think it's important for you to hear and I want to support you both. I don't want to load you with yucky feelings.
- pie: healthy to go towards these feelings
    - notice i feel defensive of you alj
    - dominic seems to sometimes not hold himself to the same standards that he expects of other people
    - "prove it to me Aljoscha"
        - meanwhile he isn't proving the same to everyone else
    - alj has demonstrated providing value
    - dominic is really good at getting things working, is genuine wisdom in building things for the real-world and not aiming for perfection
    - see alj preferring to make things perfect
        - is super valuable as a balance to dom
        - with your powers combined, make a great combo
    - mik: Dominic has feelings too. His feelings don't get to trump anyone's. But feelings aren't rational.
    - alj: feels very shitty. 
      - didn't even realise there was an issue in this thread.
      - really low motivation. Not getting anything done, sinking time into this stuff.
- mik: what are the next steps?
- alj: I should just talk to him?
- mik: how can we support?
- pie: really want to push into talking about the human things. 
- alj: want to go into a cave and hide. easier than talking.
- pie: we don't have to solve this now, we could wait a week
    - at the same time, i don't want this hanging over your head alj
    - which would you prefer alj?
- alj: i don't know, by default postpone
- pie: how about we postpone, with the option that we could organize something on-demand if you want to later
- pie: don't want you to beat yourself up about it. I trust you have the best intentions and have not been malicious. I see this as a side effect of the communication. 
- mik: if at any point, if you want to talk, please reach out. I do care about your wellbeing. I don't want to just be adding shit on your pile. I want to be constructive. It's not that I know how to handle this either. We're all learning this together. You shouldn't blame yourself. It's an ever evolving dance.
- mik: I started dancing because it was the socially acceptable way to be anti-social. I'm only just learning to interact at parties.

## flume news

- mik: what's the good news pie?
- pie: good news: built the sql flume view. can parse the whole offset log, can insert into sqlite database, can insert all metadata and content, can insert links table which shows to and from, create indexes for author, which all takes 14 seconds, which is 20x faster than the js equivalent.
- pie: been feeling real good about that
- pie: benchmarking in rust, so good, my skill in rust just got a lot better
- pie: what came out of convo with matt, he uses core Scuttlebutt api, doesn't really use flume stuff
- mik: except for ssb-backlinks
- pie: mix uses lots of ssb-query
- mik: i realized over the weekend that ssb-backlinks uses map-filter-reduce query syntax
- pie: with what we have now, we should be able to use the links table and some sql
- mik: you also mentioned being able to json queries over the content
- alj: I could backport shs to futures 0.1.0

---

- pie: kinda want to leave streams out the flume api
    - not convinced of the stream api
    - want to decouple inserting things from the offset log and when things make their way into indexes
    - not sure if it's a good idea yet, but it's a lens i'm holding up
    - if streams are needed, where would they go, maybe in JS land

## rusty client for peach cloud / full rust sbot

- mik: would be keen on being able to use a rusty client for peach cloud, but only if someone wants to do this, possible to workaround anyways
- alj: it'd be easier than doing the protocol stuff. I'm not an application dev though.
- alj: I don't think the sbot is that far away. What is left?
  - a friend's graph
  - ebt
  - blobs (chore)
  - ooo (not in production so not necessary)
  - blocking (part of friends graph)
- alj: ebt is not that hard.
- mik: the hard part is understanding dominic's code.
- alj: the dynamic friend graph part is hard. But you can just rebuild it (it's what cryptix does) often.
- mik: I'd love to be convinced that a rusty sbot is possible. Ball is in your court.




