# sunrise choir - 04/10/2018

## attendees

- Aljoscha
- mikey

## agenda

- [x] regular time slot for calls
- [x] licensing (agpl vs natifying sbot (MIT))
- [x] ssb spec format and hosting (stable hyperlinks)
- [x] feedback: spec wording and code review
- [x] overview of rust impls, part of spec or separate?
- [x] binding creation documentation/examples

## why timestamps bother alj

alj: ssb is subjective, new concept!

alj: why does everyone insist on objective timestamps?

## alj and mik agreed on a monthly contract

best way for alj to legally do work.

5k USD per month.

alj will try to do 20 days per month.

## regular time slots for calls

mik: keen for monday, tuesday, wednesday evening nz time

alj: flexible, want something regular

alj: would like if started at 9am berlin time (8pm nz time)

## licensing

alj: current rust code is AGPL. sbot is MIT.

alj: if we rust-ify sbot, then sbot would need to be AGPL too.

mik: this might really be a question of governance: what is our (legal) strategy with respect to Scuttlebutt code assets?

mik: for now, maybe stick with AGPL, but ensure that those who contribute (copyright) are willing to change in the future if necessary.

ACTION: mik will start a conversation about this

## stable hyperlinks

alj: want to refer to section -> subsection -> blah by url

Put more abstractly: Want to refer to specific ssb concepts in a machine-readable way. The web is just an (obvious) implementation detail.

mik: could offer spec.scuttlebutt.nz or spec.scuttlebutt.rs

- what's domain do we use?
    - scuttlebutt.rs?
- how do we make html?
    - GitBook for now

## code review

alj: want to convey good overviews and understanding.

alj: want feedback.

- am i being precise enough?
- do i cover everything that needs to be convered?

alj: leaning towards being as precise as ~~possible~~ necessary.

## rust impl part of spec

alj: should we link to the rust impl from the spec as a reference implementation?

alj: a story of three parts:

- spec
- implementation
- test cases

alj: should we link them all together?

mik: yes!

## should we document for binding creation?

alj: for example: how do i let the parser decode into other native objects?

alj: should we maintain bindings?

mik: yes we should maintain JavaScript bindings, but can happen later when we try to integrate into jsbot

mik: for example: https://github.com/pietgeursen/private-box-native. what's especially interesting is the use of prebuild so people can use our rust native modules without a rust toolchain.

