# sunrise choir - 04-12-2018

## Attendees

- pie
- alj
- mik

## Agenda

- [x] checkins
- [x] how's alj going? What are his plans for more choir work?
- [x] alj going to scuttle summit?
- [x] getting clmr into usage?
- [x] what did alj and dominic go over on their call?
- [x] flume progress
  - [x] quick walkthrough of the code
  - [x] any notes from alj for the meeting tomorrow?
  - [x] rubber ducky on thinking about the flume api. 
    - [x] is flumeview-query a query or a view?

## Alj future plans

- finish off the current work (message data formats)
- then finish doing this as payed work, carry on doing it as hobby work. At least for now.
- finishing off the data format will be covered in payment already made.

## Alj + scuttle-summit

- does have the time
- does have the money
- only has excuses 
- gonna do it!
- can stay with mik

## Get CLMR into usage

- specced and implemented.
- ~60% of space of legacy messages
- would be good if sbot started using it.
- we'd need js bindings
  - Dominic would need to be the one to do the rpc design. 
  - Should be a dropin replacement for JSON.*
- can Pie do the bindings?
  - should be pretty easy.
- would force the gpl copyleft convo to happen.
- alj is not blocked by getting bindings done.
- mik: happy for Pie to pick up whenever it suits.
  - excited by flume.

## Dominic + Alj call

- got to ask lots of blocking questions that has made things much easier.
- content might just be bytes, not json in the future. That's what dtarr wants in the future.

## flume progress

- written some traits that are maybe hopefully roughly what we want for a Log and a View
    - implemented the traits on an offset Log and a memory Log
    - reasonably well-tested
    - got benchmarks comparing the two
    - implemented an Iterator for both logs
    - got an Iterator over a buffered file for offset Log working

![benchmark screenshot](https://i.imgur.com/YvhtPZ1.png)

- a view gets each message exactly once and builds a "view" from all the messages.
- you can ask a view questions which it can answer based on the indexes it has stored
- alj: that's interesting what this means for programming language agnostic situations.
  - mik: that's why there might be a rpc-like interface
- pie: are there better ways to do dependency-injection / wrapping functions than how dtarr does it?
- pie: are there better ways to answer questions on data than flumeview-query or level or whatever?
    - we will talk to Matt and Mix tomorrow about which questions they need answered to build their apps
- alj: how much is flume js-specific?
    - either we re-implement the same in Rust
    - or we standardize an RPC-based flume thing
    - doesn't make sense at the moment to go fully general, we don't know the plugin story yet
- mik: the plugins do need to be re-written. That's why we're talking to mix and matt.
  - rust-sbot is a long way away. Goal is collaborate with app devs to get our stuff in there. If we can get Matt on board (rustifarian too.)
  - I don't have the answer for all the questions. Might be about cutting corners and people and what they're excited about.
- alj: what about scuttleshell? 
- could jsbot rely on rust flume?
- alj: we should co-operate more closely with cryptix.
- pie: zoom out, should this be in or out of process?
    - go back and forth on this
- piet: my github project is here: https://github.com/ssbrs/flumedb-rs/projects/1
- mik: hopefully from talking to Mix and Matt (app devs), we can get a more clear story on what flume views are, or what we want them to be
- alj: ordering. jsbot uses receive time. 
- pie: we should make flumeview-causality.
- alj: what if it sorts by...

