# sunrise choir - 2018/18/12

## attendees

- dinosaur
- Aljoscha
- Matt
- piet

## agenda

- [x] checkins
- [x] progress updates
- [x] mikey: how to promote the Sunrise Choir (& Patchwork) to get more funding!


## progress updates

- alj: elavoie and cft wrote a message to alj and dom about doing academic work on information-centric networking, meeting them to sketch out cool ssb things
- mik: meeting with matt, piet, ben, and mikey about lessbot
    - mat: lessbot is middle ground in-between scuttle-shell and every-app-having-an-sbot, sbot being as small as possible
        - sbot is only an atomic write controller
        - no plugins, just replication
    - mat: clients would read directly from log, only thing that happens over muxrpc is writes
- mik: anything we missed from that meeting, or post-meeting reflections?
    - mat: was thinking more about sql and things it can't do by itself
    - mat: every stream is a live stream
        - want everything to reactively update as it happens
    - mat: want a flume stack which supports real-time well
        - current jsbot does it well, except for on-boarding
        - want a new flume that is real-time, with good on-boarding, and works with sql
    - alj: shouldn't real-time queries be the same as regular queries?
        - mat: yes that's the good api i want
    - mik: couldn't this be as simple as re-running the same sql query once a new message came in
        - mat: should only return the new message if it's a match
    - ** PIET JOINS**
    - mat: i want to be able to know when live updates cause things to change
        - for example: the public feed, i need to know when there is a new message in the public feed, so i can open the widget thingy
        - when a new post comes in, is it from an author you follow, is it in a channel you follow, is it from someone you block, etc a series of filters
        - mik: it's worth piet looking at the patchwork queries
        - example: https://github.com/ssbc/patchwork/blob/master/sbot/public-feed.js
            - exposes two things:
                - the latest (live stream)
                - the roots (each thread that is being bumped)
                    - 3 most recent replies
                    - a collection of bumps
            - starts with createFeedStream (every post)
            - filters messages
            - looks up roots
            - filters private messages
            - filters blocked
            - filters root messages
    - piet & mat: we really just need something like live createFeedStream
        - mat: yeah, even better if we can do a small initial live query in sql
        - mat: some queries we can't do efficently in the current system
            - example: list of all threads you have posted or created yourself, in order that the most recent person replied to them
    - mat: I want to get a list of all the people I privately block.
    - pie: if there are things that need to eek performance and won't change much, we can move that into rust
        - mik: that will become possible once we have a rusty sbot
    - alj: for the filtering stuff, it doesn't matter if it's done in JavaScript or Rust
        - piet: why is it irrelevant?
        - alj: the expensive part is getting the data into your program
            - mat: you might be able to get speed gains with the index you're reading from
            - mat: would be great if you didn't have to createFeedStream
        - piet: pretty sure i can read the entire offset log to find something, hella fast
        - mat: where is the speed gain coming from in that case?
        - piet: buffered reads, start at the beginning, go as quickly as you can, native performance, it's possible that if you don't need the whole thing then serde (the deserializer) won't parse everything
          - alj: clmr would make this even faster
        - mat: would be a good benchmark to compare parsing everything in JavaScript
        - pie: i think i did that, Rust was much faster
        - mat: is hopeful, i could port my current techniques and they would work
- mat: comes down to, what do the clients agree on?
    - what do we all share?
    - alj: i'd argue for the better format
    - mat: but we'd lose the argument that we are backwards-compatible
    - gossip.json, accident waiting to happen
    - mat: the format upgrade could happen later, once we have people on board
- mat: probably the big problem will be convincing the upstream maintainers, especially since dominic is working on other things

- mik: my desire to make the next sbot has diminished, I'm just keen to re-implement it exactly how it is. sql is a safe change that will save time. I want to push the new things out until we're compatible with existing sbot. So far we haven't delivered any value. I want to use the rust sbot as well. I want it to happen as soon as possible, I want to cut corners.
- mat: I want to stay compatible with the ssb folder.
- mik: for rustbot I think we'd add folders for apps in .ssb.
- mat: I think apps should store data in their own folders.
  - all apps need is to be able to do is to find the key, the log and what to write to post messages.
- mik: it's been interesting doing peach cloud. There's just so much stuff in sbot and how it configures itself. This an opportunity to have it be a bit more standard and boring.
- mat: there's enough voodoo in the replication. It's what makes ssb special. 
- alj: for the record, i completely agree


- mik: how to promote us to get more funding:
  - spoke about it at the butt-council
    - pitching it as choir is doing core protocol work. We shouldn't pitch the amorphous ssbc, the choir is hopefully more attractive to funders. That's the hypothesis anyway
    - product / promotion. Taking a lead from manyverse. It'd be good to copy his approach for patchwork and s.r.c.
    - we'd pay someone to write monthly newsletters
      - what happened in the last month
    - patchwork should make an open collective.
    - pie: what's your reservation about making an open collective for src mikey?
    - mik: it's more work that falls on me. Y'all are shielded from it, it falls on me. If it's just creating a twitter account it's fine.
      - it makes a lot of sense for a product
      - mat: who's gonna be reading it?
      - mik: maybe it's good, there isn't a scuttlebutt twitter, we could fill that void. Still not sure about open-collective.
    - mik: how do we do the newsletters? is it just gonna be me? pie and alj said they'd do writing but haven't yet.
    - pie: that's why i hit you up yesterday, felt like we should do more blogging and promotional work, because i haven't done any, there's a question if it's sensible
        - ...
        - pie: what i'm saying is 'if you make me boss, i'll do it'
        - mik: if you do the first one, i'll do the second one, we'll trade off

ACTIONS:

- write our first Sunrise Choir monthly newsletter / report (due end of Jan)
- create a Sunrise Choir Twitter account
- (maybe) create an Sunrise Choir Open Collective
