# sunrise choir 2019-01-08

## attendees

- pie(t)
- mik(ey)
- mat(t)

## agenda

- [x] check-in
- [x] updates
- [x] Matt officially joining the Choir
    - Mikey's financial commitment
- [x] roadmap
    - lessbot first pass in js?
- [x] finding future funding
    - January newsletter
    - starting a OpenCollective?
    - being able to sell commercial licenses (e.g. to Verse)
- [x] checkouts

## updates

- pie: working on offset log follower
    - got native napi module, uses sql flumeview
    - trying to wire up module
    - a while ago, pie sent mat the README for the module, want to make sure that api is on the right track
    - wondering what tables we need to answer the questions we need to answer
    - api is basic, no concept of streams, will build pull-stream layer on top, or in module
    - mat: so will be js streaming on top of rust non-streaming
        - thinking how everything is used some concept of a "next-stepper", there's no way from stopping leveldb from loading everything into ram, maybe the streaming approach was not good anyways due to bad back pressure
            - having incremental requests at the low-level is good
    - pie: heard from you that you wanted to do a live query
    - mat: also thinking about how you page through the initial results of a query
        - mat: pages is probably the best way of describing it
            - lots of 50 items or such
- pie: thinking of newsletter, project-level work, making project accessible for newbies, being welcoming
    - who does this work, when do we do it?
    - maybe when things solidify, we make it easier for people to get amongst
- pie: fun holiday jams: thinking about how to design the rusty lessbot
    - real nice time with mik
    - opinion: internal state in redux way, external message passing with zmq
    - drew out entities and how messages would be passed around
    - real exciting, but also going to put down for now
        - don't have brain space to do both


## Matt officially joining the Choir

- mik wants to keep funding pie full-time
- mik can fund 1/3 full-time equivalent
- pie: in terms of timing?
    - mat: starting feb, will be working 2 days a week on external paid work
        - want to eventually move that to 1 day a week
        - will be good to have other funding coming online as i scale down
        - hoping by end of this year, not be doing external paid work, able to do full-time Scuttlebutt work
    - mik: you have the greenlight for choir work 20days (a month) every 3 months.
    - mat: so I could ~6 days a month? 
    - mik: yes!
- mat: would be cool to talk about the Patchwork roadmap at some point.

## Copyright

- mik: I want copyright assignment so we can sell commercial licences (e.g. to Rabble for Verse).
- mik: I have a licence agreement that you need to sign.
- mik: Signing gives me copyright, we'll sort out something better later. Hopefully I don't die or turn evil.
- mik: by signing away copyright I can then generate commercial licences
- mik: I realised we don't need to merge our AGPL code into the js stack. We just make our own sbot that we maintain. SRC has it's own stack which is AGPL + we can sell a licence.
- mik: ongoing convo with alj about copyright assignment.
- mik: want to get it into Patchwork and Manyverse because they're both compatible AGPL

## roadmap

- mik
    - pie, continue with flume
    - mat, start with js lessbot
- mat: need to get a Patchwork release out
    - complicated because moving code from plugins into clients
    - swap out backend to talk to rusty butts instead of sbot feeds
    - have to figure out how to get latest Patchwork up to snuff to be released
- pie: have a hypothesis that starting point for lessbot is vanilla sbot
    - only writer
    - need to hook up rusty thing to be notified when log is written to
    - later we can pull out more from lessbot to be less and less
    - mat: remove half plugins, add our own plugin, be done
- mik: only follower flume is in rust
- mat: summary
    - js ssb server using way less plugins
    - inside Patchwork process
        - standard js ssb client with smaller manifest
        - rusty flume follower to read and index messages
- mat: will be incremental, can leave stuff running on jsbot
    - e.g. createFeedStream
- mat: switch to lessbot
    - things will be slower
    - can figure out what is slower, move those out
    - e.g. would be sweet to move backlinks out of lessbot
    - to cheat, can add plugins to lessbot
- mik: incremental is good
    - move things out js lessbot plugins to rusty flume follower
    - once more in rusty, make a proper rusty ssb server

- mik: we're going to fork ssb-server and ssb-db to make lessbot


## finding future funding

- pie: January newsletter, started a project in Sunrise Choir org
    - https://github.com/sunrise-choir/meta/issues/1
- mik: key to prove what we're doing in Patchwork
    - then get Andre on board with Manyverse
    - then try to pitch to Verse for funding
- mat: mix will probably get on board once he sees how this will achieve his vision to get everything working together
- mik: newsletter is just to build visible momentum
    - show that we're making awesome progress
- mik: as mentioned, keen to try and sell commercial licenses for companies to use our stack
    - annual subscription fee, price depends on company
- mik: would also be great to get any help on grant funding
